{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2867
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red64\green64\blue64;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c31800;\csgray\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22\fsmilli11040 \cf2 Attachment 1- March 19, 2025, Regular HAC Meeting Minutes\
\cf3 Housing Advisory Committee (HAC) Minutes\
Wednesday, March 19th 2025\
City Space Conference Room 12pm - 2pm\
HAC Members Absent:\
\'95
\f1  
\f0 Michael Payne (MP)\
HAC Members Present:\
\'95
\f1  
\f0 Joy Johnson, Chair (JJ)\
\'95
\f1  
\f0 Sunshine Mathon, Vice Chair (SM)\
\'95
\f1  
\f0 Heather Griffith (HG)\
\'95
\f1  
\f0 Phil d'Oronzio (PdO)\
\'95
\f1  
\f0 Peppy Linden (PL)\
\'95
\f1  
\f0 Mike Parisi (MCP)\
\'95
\f1  
\f0 Dan Rosensweig (DR)\
\'95
\f1  
\f0 John Sales (JS)\
\'95
\f1  
\f0 Nicole Scro (NS)\
Staff Attendees:\
\'95
\f1  
\f0 Alexander Ikefuna (AI)\
\'95
\f1  
\f0 Madelyn Metzler (MM)\
\'95
\f1  
\f0 Antoine Williams (AW)\
1.
\f2\b  
\f0\b0 Welcome\
SM: Calls meeting to order at 12:09pm.\
2.
\f2\b  
\f0\b0 Introductions and Attendance\
3.
\f2\b  
\f0\b0 Agenda Items\
i.
\f2\b  
\f0\b0 Approved.\
November 20, 2024 Regular HAC Meeting Minutes\
ii.
\f2\b  
\f0\b0 December 18, 2024 Regular HAC Meeting Minutes\
Approved.\
iii.
\f2\b  
\f0\b0 Updated FY2025 - 2026 Meeting Schedule\
AW: Staff conflict in January 2026, suggest canceling due to overlapping CAHF\
(Charlottesville Affordable Housing Fund) Committee Activities.\
Only two meetings this past year had full HAC membership in attendance. HAC could\
consider quarterly meetings. If a member has three absences or more, membership can be\
in jeopardy.\
JS: Could there be an option for CRHA (Charlottesville Redevelopment & Housing Authority)\
Deputy Director Kathleen Glenn-Matthews to attend in my place?\
AW: Not at present, but HAC could make this motion for City Council to approve.\
DR: Move to recommend to Council to include CRHA executive director or alternate\
representative.\
Motion passes.\
SM: Any suggestions to change meeting frequency or meeting time? Governor\'92s Housing\
Conference is November 19th\'96can we move HAC\'92s November up to November 12th?\
1 of 3
\fs24 \cf0 \page 
\fs22\fsmilli11040 \cf2 Attachment 1- March 19, 2025, Regular HAC Meeting Minutes\
\cf3 Motion passes to cancel January meeting, move November meeting from 19th to 12th.\
iv.
\f2\b  
\f0\b0 Landlord Risk Reduction Program (LRRP) Discussion\
AW: LRRP implementation likely won\'92t happen soon, we can work on it at the subcommittee\
level and then bring it up to general HAC meetings.\
PdO: Notes 5-6 requests have come to the CDBG (Community Development Block Grant)\
Taskforce for eviction related programs, security deposits, etc. similar to LRRP goals. Possible\
to coordinate, consolidate efforts across orgs?\
JS: LRRP directed more towards damages, accrued rent, not eviction. Not necessarily all\
overlapping.\
NS: Have had two voucher holders in my own properties. Lots of money is funneled to\
landlords from multiple sources\'96schools, churches, nonprofits, government.\
Consolidating could help both the landlord and the tenant manage funds.\
SM: Providers struggle with funding from multiple sources and those sources coming with\
conditions, limitations. Coordination would be most helpful on the funder side not provider\
side.\
DR: Original discussion came about due to voucher holders\'92 difficulty finding landlords to\
accept them. Above and beyond security deposit guarantees, LRRP would create added\
incentive by removing the landlord's need to take the tenant to court to recover funds.\
SM: LRRP would also take away the need to put funds aside for duration of the lease; funds\
are needed only if & when conditions are triggered. Could be a more efficient use of funds.\
NS: Some voucher holders do cause damages, especially in cases with children which is\
understandable. Could a security deposit still be required and held in escrow, with the LRRP\
kicking in beyond that threshold?\
PdO: Providing the security deposit itself was a hurdle to renters getting into a unit in the\
first place.\
DR: How much is Haven funded every year for security deposits and rental arrears? Where\
does that funding come from? If from the City, could LRRP help the City more efficiently use\
funds?\
PdO: Would need to educate landlords, make LRRP process simple, and tie LRRP tightly to\
housing vouchers.\
SM: HAC previously debated the risk for abuses from tenants, whether they would have\
enough skin in the game if they weren\'92t motivated to recover their security deposits.\
HG: In case of damage mid-lease, is the landlord immediately reimbursed? Or does\
reimbursement occur at the end of the lease?\
JS: If the tenant damages the unit, they can lose their voucher. That safeguard is already in\
place and would incentivize residents not to abuse LRRP funds.\
JJ: Any potential for landlords to abuse the program?\
JS: Landlords aren\'92t getting and holding security deposit funds, and both pre- and post-\
inspections are required. Voucher program itself requires yearly inspections.\
2 of 3
\fs24 \cf0 \page 
\fs22\fsmilli11040 \cf2 Attachment 1- March 19, 2025, Regular HAC Meeting Minutes\
\cf3 DR: Would knowing they would not need to go through a court process to recover security\
deposit and rent be enough incentive for landlords to participate in LRRP?\
NS: The real estate market is so tight, preference may simply be to rent to a non-voucher\
holder.\
JS: Voucher lease-up is an issue, but it depends on the individual voucher holder. Credit\
scores, income, criminal history (some landlords look back 30 years) can all be reasons\
landlords use to rent to a voucher holder beyond issues addressed by LRRP.\
NS: Would the LRRP guarantee of security deposit satisfy the security deposit conditions of a\
lease? Or would resident also need pay the security deposit in addition to the LRRP\
guarantee?\
SM: Recommend subcommittee discuss LRRP, talk to Haven and other orgs that administer\
security deposits. Piedmont Housing Alliance provides some security deposit assistance,\
takes away from funds that could be used elsewhere.\
DR: Subcommittee can work to quantify that. How much money could be saved by this\
program? Would inform decision making.\
SM: HAC previously did a soft survey, received feedback from Misty Graves at Charlottesville\
Human Services, Emily Dreyfus at Legal Aid Justice Center, et al.\
JS: CRHA previously had a program providing a $1000 bonus to landlords for first-time\
voucher acceptance. County still has a similar incentive program that really works. CRHA\
provides 300 different vendor checks per month\'96there are a lot of small landlords along\
with the larger ones. Also need to consider implications of landlords not having security\
deposits in hand if they participate in LRRP , as well as considerations of lenders who might\
expect or demand actual security deposit funds from landlords.\
MM/AW: Not in a hurry with current 25-26 budget cycle timeline, looking at following year\
for LRRP implementation.\
4.
\f2\b  
\f0\b0 Next Meeting: April 16, 2025\
AW: HAC originally scheduled to nominate positions last meeting. Can do this now and vote at the\
April meeting.\
DR: Move to re-elect Joy, Sunshine, Mike.\
Motion seconded\
AW: Motion will carry over to next meeting\'92s vote.\
5.
\f2\b  
\f0\b0 Public Comment No public comment.\
6.
\f2\b  
\f0\b0 Adjourn Meeting adjourned 1:31pm.\
3 of 3}