{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2867
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red64\green64\blue64;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c31800;\csgray\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs21\fsmilli10980 \cf2 Attachment 1- April 16, 2025, Regular HAC Meeting Minutes\
\cf3 Housing Advisory Committee (HAC) Minutes\
Wednesday, April 16, 2025\
City Space Conference Room 12pm - 2pm\
HAC Members Present:\
\'95
\f1  
\f0 Joy Johnson, Chair (JJ)\
\'95
\f1  
\f0 Sunshine Mathon, Vice Chair (SM)\
\'95
\f1  
\f0 Phil d'Oronzio (PdO)\
\'95
\f1  
\f0 Heather Griffith (HG)\
\'95
\f1  
\f0 Peppy Linden (PL)\
\'95
\f1  
\f0 Mike Parisi (MCP)\
\'95
\f1  
\f0 Dan Rosensweig (DR)\
\'95
\f1  
\f0 Nicole Scro (NS)\
HAC Members Absent:\
\'95
\f1  
\f0 Michael Payne (MP)\
\'95
\f1  
\f0 John Sales (JS)\
Staff Attendees:\
\'95
\f1  
\f0 Alexander Ikefuna (AI)\
\'95
\f1  
\f0 Madelyn Metzler (MM)\
\'95
\f1  
\f0 Alan Peura (AP)\
\'95
\f1  
\f0 Antoine Williams (AW)\
1.
\f2\b  
\f0\b0 Welcome\
JJ: Calls meeting to order at 12:10pm.\
2.
\f2\b  
\f0\b0 Introductions and Attendance\
3.
\f2\b  
\f0\b0 Staff Updates\
AW: Council agenda for April 21\
i.
\f2\b  
\f0\b0 Housing Program Manager provide copies of upcoming council items of interest\
a.
\f2\b  
\f0\b0 2025 Affordable Housing Report\
AW: This is the 4 year checkpoint of 2021\'92s 10 year plan. $100mil commitment over\
next ten years. $59mil spent so far, $48.1mil in direct investments. There are 1023\
SAUs (Supported Affordable Units) at present.\
SM: SAU number includes future SAUs?\
AW: Accounts for money already committed by the City, but that money might not\
be received by orgs yet. Projected to hit $120mil spent on housing-related activities\
(includes admin cost, tax relief programs, etc.) Re: AMI (Area Median Income) levels\
goals, City is below goals for 30% AMI units to date, but that figure does not include\
30% AMI units in the pipeline. Next steps: close out FY 2025, develop 2026\
workplan, create beta for web dashboard for tracking housing investments.\
Dashboard is up now but data is not yet comprehensive.\
NS: How can we figure the average cost per affordable unit?\
AW: That data is not in an existing spreadsheet or database. We would need to\
assemble the data from disparate sources.\
MM: Can more easily calculate unit cost on a project-by-project basis.\
SM: There was a big change at the mid-point of last Trump admin re: funding,\
occurring again now. Historic projections may be hard to use going forward.\
NS: Could we use existing audits to help figure that out?\
1 of 3
\fs24 \cf0 \page 
\fs21\fsmilli10980 \cf2 Attachment 1- April 16, 2025, Regular HAC Meeting Minutes\
\cf3 b.
\f2\b  
\f0\b0 SM: Audits occur at the state level with VH (Virginia Housing), it\'92s an onerous\
process. No audits at the City level.\
NS: Are the VH audits available to the City?\
AW: We have access to public Virginia Housing records.\
HG: What is Dogwood?\
AW: Portfolio acquisition by the City, ~74 properties. Originally owned and\
managed by Eugene Williams, then Woodard Properties. City investment kept\
units affordable, now managed by CRHA.\
Housing Ecosystems & Anti-Displacement Toolkit (HEAT) Policy Development\
Update:\
1.
\f2\b  
\f0\b0 Land Bank Authority of the City of Charlottesville (LBAC): Update and\
Next Steps\
PdO: This ordinance has significant changes to what HAC submitted.\
Policy changes beyond what a lawyer would do. Does not reflect HAC\
memo about establishing a parallel nonprofit and sunsetting LB (Land\
Bank) as an authority after initial trial period.\
SM: Reasoning behind changes from the city attorney would be useful.\
AW: HAC can submit questions to City; changes could have come from\
city council member, staff, legal, etc. This draft put together via\
templates from other Authorities and input from various voices. If policy\
change is identified, HAC can give feedback to city executive team. This\
draft is an update/work in progress, reflects a review to make sure\
there\'92s nothing counter to VA law. Once it becomes an action item it will\
look different. Re: timeline, it is feasible to have an active Land Bank by\
this time next year.\
SM: $500k set aside for LB is gone from FY 2026 budget; will need some\
preliminary capitalization from City. Money from City likely won\'92t come\
until FY 27 unless something opens up. Given funding climate overall,\
best to assume City money won\'92t be committed until then.\
AW: For reference, the timeline for the Chesapeake Land Bank from\
incorporation to being active was 6-8 months.\
JJ: Let\'92s set a subcommittee meeting to discuss this new draft and craft\
HAC\'92s feedback.\
HAC Subcommittee Meeting set for 4/30 1pm.\
2.
\f2\b  
\f0\b0 Charlottesville Affordable Housing Tax Abatement Program (CAHTAP):\
Development and Introduction\
AW: Staff looked at tax abatement programs in 16 cities. Here in\
Charlottesville, it could fit under CEDA, or be standalone. Staff is\
presenting prompts, potential directions. E.g., could be used to fund\
ADUs, affordability levels, project sizes. In Richmond, affordability\
2 of 3
\fs24 \cf0 \page 
\fs21\fsmilli10980 \cf2 Attachment 1- April 16, 2025, Regular HAC Meeting Minutes\
\cf3 duration tied to abatements is 15 years with potential renewal. Keep in\
mind the zoning ordinance might require a longer duration.\
PdO: HAC previously looked at the City\'92s tax credit program for\
rehabilitating homes and its adaptability to promoting affordability. Will\
send to staff.\
AW: RFP (Request for Proposals) is out now for Market Needs and Fiscal\
Gap Analysis. Open to recommendations for analysis scope.\
SM: With RFPs for the Comprehensive Plan, HAC played a role in helping\
draft that. Would be useful for us to see a draft of the RFP. Motion to\
express HAC\'92s support for continued exploration of CAHTAP concept and\
desire to partner in its development.\
PL: Second.\
Motion passes.\
4.
\f2\b  
\f0\b0 Agenda Items\
i.
\f2\b  
\f0\b0 March 19, 2025 Regular HAC Meeting Minutes\
Minutes approved.\
ii.
\f2\b  
\f0\b0 Elect HAC Officers\
Continuing motion from last meeting to renew JJ, SM, MP in their positions. Motion approved.\
AW: Will review bylaws at next meeting. Adding the option for the CRHA director to designate\
a representative to HAC will be presented to Council in May.\
iii.
\f2\b  
\f0\b0 Discuss and approve the Risk Reduction Fund Survey (RRF) and next steps\
HG: Where will money for fund come from? SM: Set aside from City general fund.\
AW: No specific funding identified right now. Last recommended amount was $75,000.\
DR: Recommend allowing AW to move forward distributing survey, asking questions of\
stakeholders, survey doesn\'92t need to be perfect or occupy too much time.\
5.
\f2\b  
\f0\b0 Next Meeting: May 21, 2025\
6.
\f2\b  
\f0\b0 Public Comment\
No public comment.\
7.
\f2\b  
\f0\b0 Adjourn\
Meeting adjourned 1:26pm.\
3 of 3}